# Bootstrap-Portfolio
Initial Portfolio Design via Boostrap

Hey guys, I hope that I can provide some useful information with the following commentary. Overall, after completing this assignment, I'm left feeling underwhelmed with Bootstrap. In the session we had in class, the two primary reasons given to use Bootstrap were the familiar UI kit, and the mobile responsiveness. The mobile responsiveness is undoubtedly true, and I have nothing to comment about this. I feel conflicted on the first point, however. My experience with filtering out between what I could do purely with Bootstrap, versus what was needed with CSS in order to get the desired product, leads me to believe that Bootstrap does two sub-optimal things: Unintuitive pre-sets, and too little usefulness. It gives you items with strange and unintuitive pre-defined rules as compared to homebrew CSS, and the classes and ID's provided are too minimal to be a substitute for homebrew CSS.

A singular instance of the problem that I had with unintuitive pre-defined rules is the question that I sent to you (or Alex and Anthony, if anyone else is reading this) over Slack earlier on Sunday evening the night before the homework was due. I was absolutely baffled as to why I had both my navbar and the main section of my work pushed to the left of center of my screen. The navbar was was completely to the left, while the main section was only slightly pushed to the left. When examining this with Inspect via Google Chrome, it showed that I had nearly 80% of my navbar with right padding, and my main section having about 10% of right padding. So I subsequently spent two hours examining, re-examining, re-re-examining, and otherwise torturing both my HTML and CSS code for the cause. Nothing worked. The myraid of Google answers didn't help. Why was this happening???

...until I finally found the answer in my 4,249th Overflow Q&A thread. It turns out, Bootstrap divs, navbars, and apparently most containers have a pre-defined rule for displaying, to be <!--display: block;-->. This makes it so all elements that are contained within it to, more-or-less, act like a float-left command, making it so attempts to centrally align your elements will be futile. The solution, is just to enter into the CSS file <!--display: inline-block;-->, and then a couple of <!--margin: auto-->'s, and everything was good. I was completely bewildered and felt like I wasted an immense amount of time figuring this out. Why would Bootstrap ever default to something like that? Why couldn't I find any documentation on the main Web site talking about that, subsequently being forced to go digging for an obscure and poorly voted upon OverflowStack thread? I might have simply entered the wrong things onto Bootstrap search engine too many numerous times, but in that case... why would the correct answer only be accessible through having the absolute precise terminology that couldn't be expected of someone new to programming to posess? I think instances like these would make for a good module for the bootcamp. Perhaps we covered these types of things in class and I couldn't remember however?

As to the second part of my criticism, I'm left feeling apathetic about using Bootstrap when looking at the length of my CSS file. It's completely possible that the inner-flexibility of Bootstrap is going over my head as a newbie, but roughly 85% of the customization that was needed to replicate the template was absolutely necessary to use CSS. With the template being a pretty simple Web site, I'm left wondering, "Well, what's the point of using Bootstrap to do something complex? 300 lines of CSS code versus 280 lines, is that really worth the hassle of the the extra HTML code needed"? What started as me intially tearing through the Bootstrap Web site and related Google queries for information on utilizing different Bootstrap classes, finished with me looking at the given style.css file and copy-pasting the code there, with some editing thereafter. Either through Bootstrap lacking the available customization, the parent-child relationships necessitating extra code, or a lack of finding an answer, I didn't really use much of Bootstrap. I'm contintually confused as to why I'm searching 45 minutes on the various classes and options available to me from a generic component given by Bootstrap. Answers that, again, can only be found on third-party Web sites.

As much as this sounds like a griping session, I do genuinely believe this assignment to be helpful. Remembering that correlation between frustration and learning, I do feel a lot more knowledgeable in the fields of HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap. But... as good as a learning lesson the experience was, it left me not wanting to repeat it. For every contrived minute of floundering I experienced on this project, I'll have 30 more minutes on upcoming projects. Instances that can only really be experienced in order to understand them. But why waste that time? Why make something challenging and (a little bit) convoluted with HTML and CSS, challenging and even more convoluted with adding Bootstrap into the mix? Perhaps the mobile responsiveness is such a positive that it's given more weight than the other stated benefit?

And so ends my novel. Thanks for your patience.
